Alright, now let's very quickly
also send emails for password resets,
and that email will be very similar to this one,
so let's just go ahead and copy all of this
into a new file,
passwordReset.pug,
and then paste that here.
Now, some of the text that we want here
I believe is already in the authController,
so down here in forgotPassword,
so right here, actually this message here
is kind of what we now want in our template,
so let's just grab that, put it here
in this first paragraph, now let's put this here
at the end of the email,
this one we don't need,
let's put it here into a separate paragraph,
then here, it's actually not this, okay,
but instead we use the URL here like this,
so an interpolation and then URL,
and also, we're actually putting that URL on this,
a green button right here.
So here, let's then say as a text, reset your password.
Then just here, as this paragraph, let's just say for now,
Website for this action
not yet implemented.
So that should be the template,
next up, let's actually create the sending function
here in our email class, so we have sendWelcome,
and now we have another situation
for which we want to emails, and so simply enough,
we add another method here,
so sendPasswordReset,
so await this.send,
and so now the template name
is called passwordReset,
so the one that we just created,
and now the subject line, which is going to be,
Your password reset token,
and lets also say, valid for only 10 minutes.
Okay, let's save that, and now as a final step,
we need to actually call this method here.
So in our authController, where before we had
all of this here, let's now say, await new Email,
just like we did before for the sign up,
and now let's find the current user,
and it's simply called user, and then the resetURL,
that we already defined before up here.
Okay, and then the method that we just created,
sendPasswordReset, and that's it.
Okay, so no defining of subject lines here,
also no defining of messages, and so we abstracted
all that away with our new, really nice email handler,
and let's actually put that one here also in the try block
to keep these two here really together.
Okay, and so this should be enough
that we can now actually test it.
Okay, so let's go to Postman, and let's actually
reset the password for this user that we just created
in the last lecture,
so Reset Password,
so that's actually not the one,
so in fact it is Forgot Password.
So here, all we need to specify is the email
and that should then get us our reset token, remember?
So when I now send this, then we get our success,
and so now we should also get our email,
and indeed, here it is.
So, beautiful!
So coming from hello@jonas.io,
and going to test3@natours.io
which is the user for which we just reset the password,
and so here is that URL,
and so now let's do the whole flow,
and actually really reset the password for this user.
So now we need to use the Reset Password route
and, well now let's delete all of this,
and then also this part, what really matters here
is just this token.
And now here, let's then set the new password,
and let's say actually newpassword,
and so that's the one we've been using
so that I don't forget it.
So let's try that, and with success.
Just as a final step, let's see if we
can actually log in to our website here.
So log in, I think I copied the email,
no I did not, so that's test3@natours.io,
and what I copied was the password.
So that was successful, and we have our default image here,
and now of course we could go ahead, upload it,
but we already know that that works,
and so we don't need to test it.
Now, at this point, as you already know,
all our emails are actually getting caught here in Mailtrap,
and so again, that's because in development mode,
we don't want to leak these emails here to real users,
also, we would have no way of taking a look at these emails
if they would really end up in our real users email inboxes,
and so again, that's why we use a service like this.
However, in the next video, we will then start to send
real emails, so emails to real email addresses,
which will then end up in their inboxes.